Brand new arays doc. A small amount of work remains to be done. (#4307)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/latest/api/ysql/datatypes/type_array/literals/text-typecasting-and-literals.md

      ];
    text_cast  constant text   not null := original::text;
    recreated  constant rt[]   not null := text_cast::rt[];
  begin
    assert
      (recreated = original),
    'assert failed';
    raise info 'array of "row" type:  %', text_cast;
  end;
end;
$body$;
```
It produces this result (after manually removing the `INFO:` prompt on each output line.
```
numeric:              42.1763
timestamp:            2020-05-03 22:25:42.932771
timestamptz:          2020-05-03 22:25:42.932771-07
boolean:              true
"row" type:           (42.1763,"dog house","2020-05-03 22:25:42.932771",t)
2-d array             {{1,2},{3,4}}
array of "row" type:  {"(42.1763,\"dog house\",\"2020-05-03 22:25:42.932771\",t)","(19.8651,\"cat flap\",\"2020-05-04 22:25:42.932771\",f)"}
```
The remaining sections in the present _"[Creating an array value using a literal](../../literals/)"_ enclosing section explain the syntax of the last three `text` values.

## boolean values show special text forms in _ysqlsh_

Try this:
```postgresql
select true as "bare true", true::text as "true::text";
```
This is the result:
```
 bare true | true::text 
-----------+------------
 t         | true
```

> For all but `boolean` values, the string of characters that _ysqlsh_ uses to display any value is the `::text` typecast of that value. (After all, the only feasible means of display is strings of characters.) But uniquely for the two `boolean` values `true` and `false` it uses the single characters `t` and `f` rather than their `::text` typecasts—unless you explicitly write the typecast. 

Author: Really? I hate this! ysqlsh is just the name of a tool. It's not a variable name, a reserved word, or anything.

> This behavior is inherited from `psql`.

Author: No, certainly not "YSQL". We're talking about a convention that the plsql tool (stupidly) uses. It's got nothing to do with the SQL language.

> We saw above that even when you explicitly `::text` typecast a composite value, `true` and `false` are represented as `t` and `f`. You can't influence this outcome because it has to do with the rules for deriving the `text` of the typecast and _not_ with the convention that _ysqlsh_ uses. This asymmetry was established very many years ago; and it will not change.

Author: "Above you saw"??? Grr....

## The relationship between the text typecast of a value and the literal that creates that value

Try this in _ysqlsh_:
```postgresql
select
  42.932771::numeric          as n,
  'cat'::text                 as t1,
  $$dog's breakfast$$::text   as t2,
  array[1, 2, 3]::int[]       as "int array";
```
It shows the result:
```
     n     | t1  |       t2        | int array 
-----------+-----+-----------------+-----------
 42.932771 | cat | dog's breakfast | {1,2,3}}
```

>  You won't be surprised by this. But we need to establish the proper terms of art that allow us to describe what's going on precisely and correctly. The remaining sections in the present enclosing section rely on this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 You won't be surprised by this. But you need to establish the proper terms of art that allow you to describe what's going on precisely and correctly. The remaining sections in the present enclosing section rely on this.
```

Author: Oh dear. This seems wrong to me. It's me that has to establish stuff so that I can explain things properly. In the old days, I've written it all in the passive voice. "It's essential first to establish the proper... so that whats going on can be described..." I'm not instructing the user to select this, click that, and then establish the other!

Consider this first:

```
42.932771::numeric
```

> This is the literal that the SQL language (at least in YSQL and PostgreSQL) uses to establish the corresponding strongly typed `numeric` value. (PL/pgSQL uses the same form for the same purpose.) But, to state the obvious, a SQL statement and a PL/pgSQL source are nothing but strings of characters. That means that, in our present context, this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the literal that the SQL language (at least in the YSQL and PostgreSQL dialects) uses to establish the corresponding strongly-typed `numeric` value. (PL/pgSQL uses the same form for the same purpose.) But, to state the obvious, a SQL statement and a PL/pgSQL source are nothing but strings of characters. That means that, in the present context, this:
```

```
42.932771
```

is the _text_ of the literal.

Now consider these two:

```
'cat'::text          $$dog's breakfast$$::text
```

> The parsing rules of both SQL and PL/pgSQL (or more properly stated, the definitions of the grammars of these two languages) require that `text` literals are enquoted. Moreover, there are two syntactic mechanisms for doing this: the ordinary single quote; and so-called dollar quotes, where `$$` is a special case of the more general `$anything_you_want$`. You might think that the `::text` typecast is redundant here. But don't forget that the text of these literals might be used to establish `varchar` or `char` values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parsing rules of both SQL and PL/pgSQL (or more properly stated, the definitions of the grammars of these two languages) require that `text` literals are enquoted. Moreover, there are two syntactic mechanisms for doing this: the ordinary single quote; and so-called dollar quotes, where `$$` is a special case of the more general `$anything_you_want$`. You might think that the `::text` typecast is redundant here. But don't forget that the text of these literals might be used to establish `varchar` or `char` values.
```

> We see already, then, that the rules for composing a `numeric` literal and a `text` literal are different:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You see already, then, that the rules for composing a `numeric` literal and a `text` literal are different:
```

- You compose a `numeric` literal by following the bare text that specifies the intended value with the `::numeric` typecast operator.

- You compose a `text` literal by enquoting the bare text that specifies the intended value (however you choose to do the quoting) and by then following this with the `::text` typecast operator.

> (If you did, foolishly, enquote the bare text in a `numeric` literal then you would _not_ see an error. Rather, you would get implicit but undesirable behavior: first a genuine `text` value would be generated internally and then this, in turn, would be typecasted to the `numeric` value.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(If you did enquote the bare text in a `numeric` literal, then you would _not_ see an error. Rather, you would get implicit but undesirable behavior: first, a genuine `text` value would be generated internally, and then, this, in turn, would be typecasted to the `numeric` value.)
```

> We've already seen, informally, some examples of array literals. Here is the rule:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You've already seen, informally, some examples of array literals. Here is the rule:
```

> - You compose the bare text that specifies the intended value by writing an utterance in a dedicated grammar that starts with the left curly brace and ends with the right curly brace. (This grammar is the focus of the remaining sections in the present enclosing section.) Then you enquote this bare text (however you choose to do the quoting) and then you typecast it to the desired target array data type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You compose the bare text that specifies the intended value by writing an utterance in a dedicated grammar that starts with the left curly brace and ends with the right curly brace. (This grammar is the focus of the remainder of this section.) Then you enquote this bare text (however you choose to do the quoting) and then typecast it to the desired target array data type.
```

> These are three special cases of a more general rule. In some cases (for example in the literal for a _"row"_ type value) the enquoting mechanism might be optional (depending on the intended value) and, when written uses _double quote_ as the the enquoting character. But here, too, the general rule is the same. The bare text that specifies the intended value can always be correctly written as the `::text` typecast of that value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are three special cases of a more general rule. In some cases (for example in the literal for a _"row"_ type value) the enquoting mechanism might be optional (depending on the intended value) and, when written uses _double quote_ as the enquoting character. But here, too, the general rule is the same. The bare text that specifies the intended value can always be correctly written as the `::text` typecast of that value.
```

## Stating the general rule

Here is the general rule.

> - The literal for a value of any data type is the possibly enquoted bare text that specifies the intended value followed by the typecast operator to the desired target data type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The literal for a value of any data type is the possibly enquoted bare text that specifies the intended value, followed by the typecast operator to the desired target data type.
```

- This rule is applied recursively, for the literal for a composite value, but with different actual rules at different levels of nesting. For example, the literal for an array value as a whole must be typecasted. But, because the data type of every value in the array is already determined, the bare text that specifies these values is _not_ typecasted.
- The `::text` typecast of any value can always be used as the bare text of the literal that will recreate that value.

> A simple way to see examples of the bare text that specifies an array value, when used as a component in the literal, is to create the value using the constructor and then to inspect its `::text` typecast. But, of course, the safe way to create the text of a literal for an intended value is to understand the syntax and semantics that govern its composition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A simple way to see examples of the bare text that specifies an array value, when used as a component in the literal, is to create the value using the constructor and then to inspect its `::text` typecast. But the safe way to create the text of a literal for an intended value is to understand the syntax and semantics that govern its composition.
```

> When we need to make this distinction, throughout the whole of this major _"[Arrays](../../../type_array/)"_ section, we shall distinguish between:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this difference is useful, the [Arrays](../../../type_array/) section distinguishes between:
```

Author: "When this difference is useful, the..." No. "When this difference is important, the..."

I'll change this later on my laptop.

> - (1) the _literal_ for the intended value (i.e. the whole thing with the enquoting and the typecast, when one or both of these are needed);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (1) the _literal_ for the intended value (that is, the whole thing with the enquoting and the typecast, when one or both of these are needed);
```

> - and (2) the _text of the literal_ for the intended value (i.e. the bare text that specifies this value).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- and (2) the _text of the literal_ for the intended value (that is, the bare text that specifies this value).
```

> **Note:** often, the data type of the assignment target (for example, (a field in a column in a schema-level table or a variable in a PL/pgSQL program) is sufficient implicitly to specify the intended typecast without writing the operator. But it's never harmful to write it. Moreover, in some cases, omitting the explicit typecast can bring performance costs. For this reason, Yugabyte recommends that you always write the explicit typecast unless you are certain beyond all doubt that omitting it brings no penalty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Often, the data type of the assignment target (for example, a field in a column in a schema-level table or a variable in a PL/pgSQL program) is sufficient implicitly to specify the intended typecast without writing the operator. But it's never harmful to write it. Moreover, in some cases, omitting the explicit typecast can bring performance costs. For this reason, Yugabyte recommends that you always write the explicit typecast unless you are certain beyond all doubt that omitting it brings no penalty.
```

## Defining the "canonical form of a literal"

> The term _"canonical form"_ applies specifically to the _text of a literal_ rather than to the _literal as a whole_. But when the text of a literal is in canonical form, we say that the literal as a whole, too, is in canonical form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The term _"canonical form"_ applies specifically to the _text of a literal_ rather than to the _literal as a whole_. But when the text of a literal is in canonical form, the literal as a whole, too, is in canonical form.
```

> The canonical form of the text of a literal that produces a specific value, of any data type, is quite simply the `::text` typecast of that value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The canonical form of the text of a literal that produces a specific value, of any data type, is simply the `::text` typecast of that value.
```

> We shall see in the remaining sections in this enclosing section that many spellings of the text of an array literal, in addition to the canonical form, will produce a particular intended target value. The differences are due to how whitespace, punctuation, and escape characters are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the remaining sections in this enclosing section, you will see that many different spellings of the text of an array literal, in addition to the canonical form, will produce a particular intended target value. The differences are due to how whitespace, punctuation, and escape characters are used.
```

Author: Strange. The sentence that you want to change is still in place in what I pushed. But this is marked "Outdated". I made a not do make the change manually when the leading copy of my corpus is back in place on my laptop.
